# METAFRASIA

This study envisions a metatheoretical framework and research agenda for socio-institutional analysis(SIA) in sustainability transitions research by performing a computational literature review and social x-ray of three distinct academic discourse networks.By relating Research in Sociology of Organizations, Environmental Innovation, and Sustainability Science and by employing advanced machine learning techniques, including Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) and BERTopic, we analyze a vast corpus of 2,360 articles, totaling approximately 9.8 million words. Our hybrid socio-semantic approach involves (a) an interstitial mapping of authors in these fields, utilizing a 'social x-ray' method, and (b) a computational literature review to discern 138 distinct research themes. This endeavor not only catalogues the focal topics across these journals but also highlights the necessity for more nuanced, interstitial research within this linguistic topography. Consequently, we are envisioning an interstitial research agenda, comprising five research directions and a 15-point action plan aimed at fostering interdisciplinary dialogue and advancing theoretical sociology driven sustainability transitions research in the emerging domain of SIA . Our methodological innovation demonstrates the value of computational analytics in conceptualizing and navigating the complex networks of socio-institutional discourse, setting a new precedent for future interdisciplinary research.

## Usage

Follow the instructions in [strandbox_full_modelling.ipynb](strandbox_full_modelling.ipynb) to perform the topic modelling. We haven't shared the dataset in this repo but we share the experiments results in the [results](results) folder. Similarly, we showcase some of the experiments results in [strandbox_results.ipynb](strandbox_results.ipynb).

For full replication of our experiments on three journals, start by downloading required research
articles as pdfs. Once downloaded we need to convert them into the format which can be used for 
data modelling. We have detailed code for this process in [ArenaBox](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/tree/main) repository. We list some steps
to make it easier for navigating through that repo.

1. Use [pdf_to_xml.sh](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/src/data/collection/pdf_to_xml.sh) script to convert pdfs to xml format.
2. Once converted to xml, we need to retrieve relevant information such as abstract, introduction, etc. from the scientific articles. To do this we use [sci_articles.py](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/src/data/extraction/sci_articles.py) for this purpose. There is an associated [config file](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/configs/data/extraction/sci_articles.yaml) to ease this process.
3. Although, we provide preprocessing and topic modeling in this repository for faster replication but for detailed and pipeline processing Arenabox can also be used.
4. So for preprocessing the extracted data we use [preprocess/sci_articles.py](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/src/data/preprocess/sci_articles.py). Again we utilize [config file](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/configs/data/preprocess/sci_articles.yaml) to parametrize this step.
5. In order to find optimal number of topics in a given text document/s we use [evaluate/using_lda.py](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/src/evaluate/using_lda.py). Note that this process can take time based on the upper limit set for number of topics. These limits are defined [here](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/configs/evaluate/lda.yaml).
6. We recommend use of given notebook (strandbox_full_modelling.ipynb) for topic modelling as it incorporates the latest changes to the base model (BERTopic) used for topic modelling.
7. To use our pipeline for topic modelling, [topic_model.py](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/src/train/topic_model.py) can be using along with [config file](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/configs/train/base.yaml).
8. To create temporal trends like hot, cold, evergreen topics in the given text use [temporal_trends.py](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/src/analyze/temporal_trends.py). To create collaboration networks use [collaboration.py](https://github.com/arenabox/ArenaBox/blob/bd79ef99e7d2f19490a2f42a738348bcd80fea85/src/vizualize/colaboration.py).
